<HTML>
<HEAD>
<TITLE>SciFi Stories--CITY OF THE BRONZE STATUE</TITLE>
</HEAD>


<body bgcolor="#ffffff">

<center>
<p><br>
<font face="Arial" size=5 color="#000000"><b>
MIRAGE Short Stories<br>
CITY OF THE BRONZE STATUE</font>
</center><p>
<font face="Arial" size=2 color="#777777">
( An abstract from "Time-traveler's Guide" [v2318] : the Ancient City of Solon, pp47-55. )<p>
<i>by <font face="Arial" size=2 color="#000000">S. K. Chang</font><br>
translated from Chinese by <font face="Arial" size=2 color="#000000">K. G. Koziol</font> and <font face="Arial" size=2 color="#000000">L. Yeh</font></i>
<p><br><hr>
<br>
</font>


<center>
<table border=0 cellpadding=0 cellspacing=0 width=80%>
<tr><td><font face="Arial" size=2 color="#444444"><b>
...The Bronze Statue, erected in the heart of the
imperial city of Solon, stood over 400 Terran-metres tall
and took up nearly 2 hectares at its base. The towering
corpus could be seen shining brilliantly under the violet
sun from over 80 kilometres across the surrounding savannah.
According to the travelers at that time (i.e. late Anlui
Era), the Statue was the most distinguishing landmark of the
whole planet when observed from spaceships -- even the
Golden Palace could not compare with its magnificence. Such
huge dimensions made the Statue not only unique in the
Huhuian Stellar System but, perhaps, even in the entire
Universe.
<p>
There are several legends about the origin of this
Statue. According to the Huhui Annals, the earliest version
of this Statue was erected to commemorate the first wave of
Solonian colonizers. However, it is generally believed that
the first Statue represented the first ruler of Solon.
Another theory is that the Statue was a trophy of The
Interstellar War III... In any case, all later historians
agree that there had been a Statue in Solon by the end of
that war.
<p>
The first Statue stood about 40 metres tall. It was
already a giant for its age, but only a mole hill in
comparison with those colossal Statues of later years.
<p>
20 years after the conclusion of Interstellar War III,
the emperor of Huhui, who had disappeared in the tumult and
was thought dead, suddenly reappeared in Solon. His younger
brother, already on the throne for years, was of course
unwilling to step down, and therefore the two sides finally
took up arms against each other. Backed by those ministers
who were still loyal to him, the old emperor conquered the
imperial city, forcing the new emperor to flee into the
savannah. Following the restoration, the followers of the
new emperor who stayed behind in the city were all executed
-- more than a thousand heads were hung on the city walls,
and all the helmets and breast plates of the dead were
melted down together with the original Statue and then
recast into a new one of the old emperor. Not long
afterwards the old emperor passed away, but because the
successor was very young, the new emperor's party seized the
opportunity to ally with the Leopardmen and attack the city.
Once again upon the throne, the new emperor massacred the
remaining members of the old emperor's party and recast the
Statue in his own image. The old emperor's heir, who barely
escaped with his life, had also fled into the savannah, but
returned 12 years later to retake the city following another
mass insurrection....
<p>
The struggles for power between the "Old Party" and the
"New Party" lasted more than 1000 years. According to the
Huhui Annals, Solon city changed flags altogether 31 times,
thus showing how unstable the situation was during that
period. This long-term struggle has been called the
"Thousand Year War" in history books.
<p>
Since it was dominated by such fierce civil wars, the
Thousand Year War period of the Anlui Era contributed little
to the development of Huhuian civilization. Perhaps the only
accomplishment was the advancement in bronze-casting
techniques -- no matter which party conquered Solon, the
first thing it did was to exterminate the members of the
opposing party and melt down their armor together with the
old Statue and cast a new one. As the scale of warfare grew
larger and larger, the Statue consequently became bigger and
bigger. When the city changed flags/banners for the 17th time, the
Statue had already reached almost 100 metres in height. Even
though bronze-casting techniques were quite advanced, to
recast such a mammoth statue was still a time-consuming and
difficult task. It would exhaust all the resources of the
city and offer the opposition a chance to seize the throne.
Thus, the cycle of melting and recasting never stopped....
<p>
The recasting of the Statue therefore turned into a
nightmare for the rulers of Solon -- something they could
not afford either to do or not to do. A Huhuian poet of that
time said it best: "The eyes of the entire Universe, all,
are gazing at the ever-glowing Golden Man of the imperial
city." When the city changed hands for the 19th time, the
victor -- a prince of the New Party -- issued orders to
destroy the Statue and forbade its recasting. Nevertheless,
this brave prince suddenly became the object of his
subject's contempt and was stabbed to death the next morning
in his tub by his own officers, thus Solon changed hands for
the 20th time. Because of this frightening historical
precedent, no subsequent emperors again dared to go against
this tradition. No matter how difficult the work of
recasting was, even if it emptied the treasury, it still had
to be done!
<p>
The emperors accordingly were quite ambivalent toward the
Statue. If an emperor did not cast the Statue it meant
losing his life, but if he did he was destined to lose his
country. The choice between these two dilemmas was enough to
make even the most enlightened emperor's hair and beard turn
white. The attitude of the Solonian citizens was equally
double-minded. They detested the work of recasting Statues,
for many of their fathers and brothers either were killed in
battles and had their armor integrated into the Statues, or
perished accidentally while casting the new Statue -- losing
their footing and falling into the molten hot forge, or
being crushed by the debris as the old Statue was destroyed,
or dying of exhaustion along the road as they tried to move
the debris. Hence, the Statue always conjured up bitter
memories. Nevertheless, it was at the same time the landmark
that the citizens were most proud of -- the Bronze Statue
was the main reason for the city's greatness and glory.
There was not a single Huhuian poet who did not either
praise or condemn the Statue. And this is also the reason
why that, until now, the lovelorn youth of Huhui still refer
to their lovers as the "Bronze Statue of Solon" in their
letters.
<p>
Since both emperor and citizens possessed such
complicated and strong feelings toward this Bronze Statue,
by the time the city changed flags for the 29th time, the
Statue had already become a gigantic object more than 150
metres in height. Anyone who intended to recast it would be
scared to death by just looking at it. One time a general
of the Old Party conquered the city and proudly entered it.
His officers led him before the Statue where he glanced at
it only for a moment and then fell from his horse. The poor
fellow was knocked out and remained in a coma for three
days. On the third night, in the square in front of the
Palace, someone happened upon him pacing back and forth and
mumbling to himself barefooted with hands behind his back.
In the morning the guards discovered that he had hanged
himself in the Palace. Some said he had committed suicide;
some said he had lost his mind; but others believed that it
was the spirit of the Statue that had possessed him and
forced him to do himself in.
<p>
No matter what the real cause, the general's death so
frightened the armies of both parties that they did not dare
to attack the city for nearly 37 years thereafter. Solon
consequently became a free city during that time. The
leaders of both sides knew that whoever attacked and entered
the city would then have to recast the Statue, but none of
them had the courage and only let Solon run itself. This was
probably "Heaven's Will", for it was during this period
that the democratic traditions of Huhuian civilization first
came about. For the first few years, the city had no real
government. After a few years' chaos, an old scholar strove
to persuade the inhabitants to adopt Terran ways and
organize a republic, called according to the history books
the "First Republic". Solon had thus changed flags for the
30th time.
<p>
Once the republic was established the city gradually
regained its former glory, people were living well and
business and industry developed rapidly. This made the
senators of the republic very proud of themselves. Then it
came to certain people's minds that it was the proper time
to recast another Statue. The advocators pointed out that
since the present Statue was made in the image of the last
emperor of the New Party, it was absolutely unsuitable for
the people to honor him. Furthermore, the achievements of
the republican government had surpassed those of the past,
and that this government deserved to have a new Statue for
itself. The only question was whose image would be on the
new Statue. Some recommended casting many small statues to
commemorate Solon's first colonizers. Others called for
honoring Solon's first ruler. As for the senators, they, of
course, privately hoped for a Statue of themselves, only it
was not proper to pursue that publicly.
<p>
Nevertheless, there were also many people opposed to
recasting the Statue: They pointed out that emperors of past
dynasties all had lost their thrones and perished on account
of remaking the Statue; hence the republic, being a
democratic government, should not be so ambitious. Moreover,
the armies of both the Old Party and New Party still
appeared from time to time on the savannah and might attack
the city at any moment. If the republican government wasted
its people and resources on recasting the Statue, this would
no doubt be a stupidly suicidal action. In addition, the
Statue was already well over 150 metres tall and weighed
over 100 tons. Last time it took nearly 10 years to recast
it. How could a republican government, they asked, act so
autocratically and not take into account the opposition of
the people?
<p>
Both sides of the question were quite powerful and they
squabbled over this problem for quite some time. Finally, a
solution was found by the same scholar who had originally
suggested the creation of the republic. This old man was
already over 90 years old, but he was still sharper and more
intelligent than most young people. His solution was a great
invention of Huhuian civilization and had a great influence
on later generations: He stated that there was no need to
recast the Statue from scratch. Instead, they could simply
add an outside shell coating to the original Statue. This
way not only would the new Statue be larger than the old
one, but it would also not be necessary to destroy the old
Statue and thus spare work and material. And most
importantly, because the old Statue would still be inside,
subsequent emperors would not frivolously dare to destroy
the Statue, but, at most, simply try to add a new shell to
it.
<p>
The old scholar's recommendation was quickly adopted by
the entire republican senate, and all the citizens also
heaved a sigh of relief as if emancipated from a huge
burden. What a clever way of killing two birds with one
stone! they thought. Appreciating the old scholar for his
contribution and support for the republic, people all agreed
that the face of the new Statue should be none other than
his own. Who could have known that just because of this, the
old scholar would be killed and the First Republic would
come to an end?
<p>
News that the republican government in Solon was going
to rebuild the Statue spread quickly over the savannah and
greatly disturbed both the leaders of the Old and New Party.
Once they realized that recasting the Statue would no longer
be such a difficult task, their ambitions stirred up again.
As a consequence, they resolved their differences and
organized an allied army to besiege the city. The republican
government fought bravely for 3 years, but finally could no
longer resist the assaults. The day the city fell, none of
the republican senators fled, instead, they all remained and
burned themselves to death in the senate chamber. The
republican army that defended the city also fought to the
end, not a single soldier surrendering. The tragic fall of
the First Republic has been sung of even to this day by
Huhuian poets and has inspired generations of Huhui
democratic resistance fighters.
<p>
What followed the entrance of the allied army was three
days' mass slaughter. The old scholar and 35 members of his
family were all killed and their heads hung on the city gate
forever forbidden to be removed. It was not until 124 years
later, when the Second Republic was established, that the
heads were finally taken down and the Statue recast in the
old scholar's image.
<p>
After the victory, the allied army crowned a prince of
the Old Party and a princess of the New Party as emperor and
empress -- thus concluding the Thousand Year War between
these two imperial parties. And another shell was then
immediately added to the Statue.
<p>
Following the Thousand Year War, Huhui history moved
into a brand new period. From then on there was no longer a
struggle between the Old Party and the New Party, instead it
was replaced by the wars between the "Imperial Party" and
the "Populist Party". In a period which lasted nearly 2000
years, 27 republics and 27 restorations came and went. Since
the banner of the Imperial Party was a leopard and that of
the Populist Party a snake, this struggle has been called
the "Leopard-Snake War". In the end the Imperial Party and
Populist Party also came to a compromise, Huhui history
subsequently entered a period of constitutional monarchy and
Huhuian civilization of Anlui Era reached its golden age.
<p>
During the 2000 years of the Leopard-Snake War, the
Bronze Statue of Solon acquired 54 new shells, finally
becoming a mountainous Statue nearly 300 metres high. At the
beginning of the constitutional monarchy, there were still
several courageous and talented generals and prime ministers
who had continued to modify the Statue. But because its body
was just too big, even putting on just one more layer had
become an extremely complicated engineering feat. Hence the
last time the Statue was modified, it cost several trillions
and the minister was dismissed. Thereafter, no minister ever
again tried to modify the Statue.
<p>
Still, over time the Statue continued to change on its
own. The outer shells that had been added dynasty after
dynasty were originally fashioned in the images of different
historical figures. Perhaps due to some transformation over
time, or perhaps because of the weight of gravity, each
layer of shell naturally squeezed and attached itself to the
prior one, and thus the Statue slowly altered its
appearance, no longer resembling any particular historical
person, but becoming a composite of numerous faces and
figures. When Solonians and visitors glanced up at the
Statue, they could not help but have a strange sensation
that what they were looking at was a living being, not a
metal statue of several hundred tons. Some said that when
they stood in front of the Statue, they felt as if the eyes
of all Huhuian history were looking at them. Others said
that the Statue's appearance was not that of an ordinary man
but of some kind of super being....
<p>
In this way, all sorts of rumors gradually began to
spread: Some people swore that when they passed the Statue
at night they could hear it breathing heavily. Residents who
lived on the nearby lanes all claimed that they had heard
sounds of the Statue crying or sighing. Although the city
government again and again explained away these rumors, they
still managed to spread uncontrollably. Since the Statue had
entombed innumerable spirits of those who had not died well,
it was not surprising, according to government authorities,
that legends about the Statue would grow. It was not until
the Iconolatrism -- a religion that considered the Statue to
be the only God -- emerged and people began to worship the
Statue, that the Solon government began to panic and adopt
severe measures to ban the religious movement and forbid its
practices.
<p>
Huhuian civilization had by this time reached the peak
of glory, its arts, culture, commerce, industry, science,
and military power all surpassing those of nearby star
systems in the Galaxy. The Huhuian Stellar System therefore
naturally assumed the hegemony of the 18 neighboring star
systems. Historians, accordingly, still continue to debate
about the appearance of primitive Statue worship in spite of
the advancement of Huhuian civilization in Anlui Era. In any
case the magic power of the Statue continued to grow day by
day. Even though the government had not done any work on the
Statue for many years, the Statue kept on increasing in
size. Some people suspected the Iconolatrists were secretly
repairing it, but this is not very convincing. First,
although these believers worshiped the Statue, they dared
not touch it in any way, for according to their Canon Law,
it would have been blasphemous. Second, even if some member
of the Iconolatrist sect had decided to break with the Law
and try to repair the Statue, it would have been very
difficult for that person to escape detection by the
Statue's guardians. Another theory, with a little more
scientific basis, said that, as a result of the downward
slippage of a fault under the city, some small fissures had
begun to appear at the base of the Statue. In this way
underground magma was able to enter the Statue and blow it
up like a balloon. This theory also explained fairly well
why at times the Statue seemed to "sweat" or "cry". No
matter what the cause, the ever-expanding Statue began to
incite the citizens to a state of general panic. In the
quiet of the night, even those who were not adherents of
Iconolatrism could hear the Statue breathing. Furthermore,
the face of the Statue slowly but steadily took on a
frightening aspect. It was so terrible that once when an
ambassador from other stellar system gaze upon the Statue
for the first time, he fearfully exclaimed, without thinking
twice, "This is a demon's face!"
<p>
For more than 100 years the Statue continued to grow,
reaching a height of 360 metres. Its body also kept on
expanding and encroaching upon the plaza in front of it and
four or five blocks of the surrounding residential area. As
the Statue grew so did the number of followers of
Iconolatrism. In spite of the efforts of the government
authorities at suppression, the power and influence of this
religion were by no means quelled: Children paraded through
the city with the Bronze-Statue badges and insignia on their
clothes. Women wore images of the Statue as pendants and
prayed for blessings before the Statue. Philosophers wrote
long treatises discussing whether the Statue was the only
God in the Universe. And from time to time bloody disputes
broke out among various sects of believers on account of
differences in religious teachings -- hence, martyrs were
often immolated in front of the Statue. The Statue, in the
face of all this change, remained impassive and just kept on
growing. Finally the prime minister and cabinet ministers
announced that they all would convert, and Iconolatrism
became the state religion from that time on.
<p>
Since Huhui had become hegemon of the local superstellar
systems -- the Stellar Alliance, it therefore commanded all
the other systems of the Alliance to adopt this new
religion. 13 systems yielded to Huhui's threats of military
force; however, the other 5 systems decisively announced
that they would leave the Alliance. As a consequence,
fanatic Iconolatrists in Huhui organized an expeditionary
force to conquer those systems that had pulled out. In the
beginning this was more or less a local dispute; but
eventually it came to involve the neighboring superstellar
systems. One tragic event led to another, like the domino
effect, and eventually caused the Interstellar War IV.
<p>
Interstellar War IV lasted about 250 years, destroying
much of Galactic civilization and greatly influencing the
course of future events. (For more details on the war,
consult "Comprehensive History of Interstellar War IV.") Not
long after the cease fire, Huhui, the stellar system that
had started it all, received the penalty it deserved: A star
fleet from the superstellar System GGG besieged the Huhui
world, and a Dragon class dreadnought soon appeared above
Solon city. 20 minutes later, the entire Statue was
vaporized leaving nothing but a large bare patch of scorched
earth.
<p>
Legends about the Statue, however, continued on despite
the vaporization of the Statue. It is said that the day
before its destruction, the Statue seemed to be crying, and
its face took on a rare kind expression. A witness, an
adherent of Iconolatrism, recalled that only at that moment
did he realize that the Statue truly was the soul of the
city. There was another rumor saying that the Statue was
never really vaporized and that a new Statue had appeared in
the upper reaches of the Hu River Basin. Some people even
believed that the Statue would somehow condense back into
shape and return to Solon to lead the Huhuian warriors in
starting up Interstellar War V and thus the Iconolatrism
would be restored to its former power and glory. All of
these beliefs are still current in Huhui world today.
<p>
There is however at least one thing that is certain: The
destinies of Solon and its Statue have intimately
intertwined. After the Statue was vaporized, Huhuian
civilization in Anlui Era rapidly followed the road to
collapse. 25 years after the Statue's destruction, Solon was
conquered by the Snakemen from the Hu River Basin and fell
into ruin, the Snakemen themselves soon also mysteriously
becoming extinct. What connection these unusual events have
with the Bronze Statue will still have to wait for future
historical research....
</b>
</font>
</td></tr></table>
</center>
</BODY></HTML>
