Project:

PTT is the most popular Bulletin Board System (BBS) in Taiwan and the
largest BBS in the Chinese-speaking community. There are many kinds of
boards in PTT. One of them is ShuangHe, which the people, including me,
who live in this location in Taipei provide relevant information about
this place. I am planning to use social network analysis to measure the
size, density, clique, and centralization of the board with UCINet or
Pajek, the social network analysis software. I will collect the data
manually, including members of registration and posts during six or twelve
months, and then cluster and analyze them to find out the development of
the board, such as evolution of topics and members.


Comments:
Good.  At least you describe an approach
to conduct the study.

Seminar:

I have chosen the four papers, and am planning to read them. These papers
mention the concept of links to analyze the social network. I am planning
to use the concept to analyze the PTT, the largest BBS in Taiwan. Now I am
still thinking about the dimensions I can analyze of evlution of the topic
and relationship.

Papers:

1. Online Supportive Interactions: Using a Network Approach to Examine
Communication Patterns within a Psychosis Social Support Group in Taiwan.
Hui-Jung Chang, 2009, Journal of the American Society for Information
Science and Technology, 60(7):1540-1518.

Abstract:
A network approach was used to determine the overall supportive
communication patterns constructed within the PTT psychosis support group
in Taiwan, the largest bulletin board system in the Chinese-speaking
world. The full sequences of supportive interactions were observed over a
-year period from February 2004 to July 2006. The results indicated that
the most exchanged support types were information and network links. All
types of supportive communication networks were relatively sparse, yet
small groups of cliques with different provision of support types formed
within the psychosis group. Most of the online supportive interactions
exchanged at dyadic and triadic levels. The overall supportive network was
highly centralized. The overall findings with implications for future
studies were discussed.




2.Expressing Social Relationships on the Blog through Links and Comments.
Noor Ali-Hasan and Lada A. Adamic, 2007, In Proceedings of the 1st Annual
Meeting of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational
Linguistics.

http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/summary?doi=10.1.1.107.4956

Abstract:

Blogs, regularly updated online journals, allow people to quickly and
easily create and share online content. Most bloggers write about their
everyday lives and generally have a small audience of regular readers.
Readers interact with bloggers by contributing comments in response to
specific blog posts. Moreover, readers of blogs are often bloggers
themselves and acknowledge their favorite blogs by adding them to their
blogrolls or linking to them in their posts. This paper presents a study
of bloggers’ online and real life relationships in three blog communities:
Kuwait Blogs, Dallas/Fort Worth Blogs, and United Arab Emirates Blogs.
Through a comparative analysis of the social network structures created by
blogrolls and blog comments, we find different characteristics for
different kinds of links. Our online survey of the three communities
reveals that few of the blogging interactions reflect close offline
relationships, and moreover that many online relationships were formed
through blogging.



3. Visualization of the Nordic academic web: Link analysis using social
network tools. Jose Luis Ortega and Isidro F. Aguillo, 2007,  Information
Processing and Management.


http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/summary?doi=10.1.1.99.9758

Abstract:

The aim of this paper is to study the link relationships in the Nordic
academic web space – comprised of 23 Finnish, 11 Danish and 28 Swedish
academic web domains with the European one. Through social networks
analysis we intend to detect sub-networks within the Nordic network, the
position and role of the different university web domains and to
understand the structural topology of this web space. Co-link analysis,
with asymmetrical matrices and cosine measure, is used to identify
thematic clusters. Results show that the Nordic network is a cohesive
network, set up by three well-defined subnetworks and it rests on the
Finnish and Swedish sub-networks. We conclude that the Danish network has
less visibility than other Nordic countries. The Swedish one is the
principal Nordic sub-network and the Finland network is a slightly
isolated from Europe, with the exception of the University of Helsinki.


4. On the Evoluation of User Interaction in Facebook. Bimal Viswanath,
Alan Mislove, Meeyoung Cha, and Krishna P. Gummadi, 2009,  WOSN '09
Proceedings of the 2nd ACM workshop on Online social networks


http://www.mpi-sws.org/~gummadi/papers/wosn23-viswanath.pdf


Abstract:

Online social networks have become extremely popular; numerous sites allow
users to interact and share content using social links. Users of these
networks often establish hundreds to even thousands of social  links with
other users. Recently, researchers have suggested examining the activity
network - a network that is based on the actual interaction between users,
rather than mere friendship - to distinguish between strong and weak
links. While initial studies have led to insights on how an activity
network is structurally different from the social network itself, a
natural and important aspect of the activity network has been disregarded:
the fact that over time social links can grow stronger or weaker. In this
paper, we study the evolution of activity between users in the Facebook
social network to capture this notion. We find that links in the activity
network tend to come and go rapidly over time, and the strength of ties
exhibits a general decreasing trend of activity as the social network link
ages. For example, only 30% of Facebook user pairs interact consistently
from one month to the next. Interestingly, we also find that even though
the links of the activity network change rapidly over time, many
graph-theoretic properties of the activity network remain unchanged.

