Dear CS1631 Student working on T1 or T2:

1. Please send me ppt file of your seminar presentation
before your presentation so I can upload it.

2. Regarding your project on T1 or T2,
the details are for you to specify and design.
I will describe the common elements here:

2.1. You are supposed to design and test the
Temperature monitor works correctly
in the SIS framework. So the component will collect data
from sensors, check certain conditions and send alert
messages to SIS, who will forward it to Uploader.

You will do program development and testing using your
own PC that runs the SIS you have installed.  Whenever
you find that you lack certain input, use PrjRemote.exe
to generate the needed messages.

2.2. The starting point is always the following document:
  http://people.cs.pitt.edu/~chang/163/interface/SequenceSIS.htm

Please read the above document carefully, and make
sure you understand it.

Please note all system messages are specified at:
  http://people.cs.pitt.edu/~chang/163/interface/MessageSIS.htm

2.3. You need to add a message 20 to create the Temperature
monitor component.  This is to enable SIS
server to know that Temperature monitor
component exist.  If Temperature monitor already
exists, check whether such message 20 exists and
works properly.  

2.4. When system gets started, a message 23 is used
to connect a component to the SIS server.
The existing script may already be doing that.
Check it out.

2.5. The Temperature component should
input from the Temperature file, and when
condition is satisfied, send message 38
to SIS.

2.6. If you are working on T2, you will add
more to the above basic scenario.  For example,
if the Temperature monitor receives a warning
message from the Kinect monitor, indicating
it detects that the patient has a fall, then
the Temperature monitor may dynamically
change the settings for alert temperatures,
to make sure the patient will not suffer from
freezing temperature.  This is for you to
specify.  Typically it involves multiple
warning messages from other sensor monitors.


=============

This is a checklist for the testing of the
Thermometer monitor component.


( ) The GUI/InputProcessor is an SIS component

( ) The submenu to select options for thermometer
    is part of the GUI component

( ) After options for thermometer have been selected,
    a message containing the parameters is sent
    by GUI compoment to the thermometer monitor

( ) The thermometer monitor is an SIS component

( ) The thermometer monitor contains the codes
    to manage the various options, for example,
    the detection of temperature value over a
    threshold or under another threshold, and so on.

( ) If a special condition is detected, the thermometer
    monitor sends a warning message 38 to SIS,
    which should forward it to the Uploader component.

( ) The Uploader component receives the warning message
    38 from the thermometer monitor and then sends
    e-mail to the end-user.

( ) The Uploader component also stores the temperature
    information in the online PatientHealth database.

In addition to the above basic checklist, for T2
there will be additional checks:

(  ) If the Thermometer monitor receives multiple
warnings, it performs the correct sequence of 
actions.

