Seminar:

For my seminar, I am under the Social Network group. I am examining the
social network Flickr and showing how it is a slow intelligence system. I
have about half of my slides done now. I have 3 articles outside of the
Wang article you sent us. My papers are "Social Network Analysis: An
Approach and Technique for the Study of Information Exchange", "Structure
and Evolution of Online Social Networks", Beyond Friendship Graphs: A
Study of User Interactions in Flickr". The first paper covers
methodologies for studying social networks. The second focuses on the
evolution of two social networks, Yahoo! 360 and Flickr, and how their
user base grew. The final paper focuses primarily on the social network
Flickr, that I am looking at. The paper shows the interaction between
users on Flickr. In my powerpoint I show how Flickr is a slow intelligence
system by giving examples for how it matches each aspect of a slow
intelligence system.


Comments:
Describe your approach with more detail.
 You need to model the Flickr social network as
 a slow intelligence system.  But how?  You need
 to describe your general approach. How do you
 isolate the various components of Flickr.  What
 might be considered as the enumerator, etc.



-----
I'm going to model Flickr in two stages of its lifecycle. One is at the
beginning with the creation of the social network. In this case, the
enumerator is the users joining the network, propagation is the creation
of links between these new users (creating the connected network),
adaptation being the users settling into their roles in the network (after
a while, not everyone will be contributing as much as they were in the
beginning), elimination being the users who contribute so little that
eventually fall off of the graph, and concentration being the focus of
power users and popular albums. The other stage is the current use of the
established network. Enumeration is the creation of new photos and photo
albums, propagation being the sharing of these photos to friends,
adaptation being the change in who these photos are shared with (open vs
private), elimination being the photos that no one really views and in
essence have no bearing on the network, concentration again being the
focus on popular photos and users. I'm still outlining the second stage,
so that is not completely finished yet.

